# Questions for w4d3

Answer these after you finished the readings.

## Topic 1: MVC

0. What is MVC? Describe the division of responsibilities amongst the layers.
  0. What does the 'M' stand for? What does it do?
  0. What does the 'V' stand for? What does it do?
  0. What does the 'C' stand for? What does it do?
0. What is the Router? What does it do?
0. Explain the lifecycle of a request in Rails.


## Topic 2: Basic Routing
0. What command would you type to view your routes in a Rails app?
0. For each of the following url helpers, write what the actual url would look like:
  0. `users_url`
  0. `user_url(@user) # @user = {id: 1, name: "Bill"}`
  0. `edit_post_url`
  0. `new_session_url`
0. If you wanted a URL that looks like `/houses?color=green`, what would the url helper method call look like?
0. Write code that would create all standard routes for `posts`.
  0. Add a member route called `favorite`.
  0. Add a collection route called `sort`.
0. Write code that would create `index` and `show` routes only for resource `animals`.
0. Write code that would create all routes except `destroy` for resource `puppies`.
0. How would you set the `root` to the index page of `users`?


## Topic 3: Basic Controllers
0. If I define a method in `ApplicationController`, can I use it in, let's say, `UsersController`?
0. I have a model called `car`. What would the controller's name be?
0. What happens to a controller instance once a request is processed?
0. Within a controller, what variable allows access to query string parameters?
0. Write code that would test whether `flagged` in the query string is equal to `'true'`.
0. Say you are in the show action in a controller. Write code that would grab the id of the object in question.

## Topic 4: Basic Views
0. How does a controller pass data to a view?
0. How would you render json? Plain text?
0. Explain the double render error.
0. Explain how redirect and render differ.

## Topic 5: ERB
0. What's the difference between `<% %>` and `<%= %>`?
0. What are the view helpers for:
  0. A link
  0. A button
  0. An image
0. Write code that would iterate over variable `@cats`, creating a `<div>` containing `cat.name` for each cat.