# Questions for w4d5

Answer these after you finished the readings.

## Topic 1: Advanced Routing

0. Write code that would nest the resource 'bedrooms' in the resource 'houses'

  ```ruby
  resources :houses
  ```

0. Now, re-write the code to only nest the collection routes of 'bedrooms'. Also have a top-level route for 'bedrooms'

  ```ruby
  resources :houses
  ```

0. Why is only nesting collection routes a superior approach?

0. Why is nesting collection routes helpful in the first place?

0. Consider the following nested route and controller:

  ```ruby
  # in routes.rb

  resources :cars do
    resources :doors, only: [:index, :new, :create]
  end
  ```

  ```ruby
  # in doors_controller.rb

  class DoorsController < ApplicationController
    # ...
    def new
      @door = Door.new(car_id: params[:car_id])
    end
  end
  ```

0. Complete the form below so that the created door will know which car it belongs to:

  ```html+erb
  <%= form_for(@door) do |f| %>
    <%# code goes here %>

    ...

    <%= f.submit %>
  <% end %>
  ```

0. Create a member action for the resource `pillows` called `fluff`. It should be a post method.

  ```ruby
  resources :pillows do
    #code goes here
  end
  ```

0. Add to the resource 'pillows' a collection method called 'look_at_all'. It should be a get method.

  ```ruby
  resources :pillows do
    #code goes here
  end
  ```

## Topic 2: View Partials

0. Create a form partial that accepts a name, age, and weight. The model for this form is `User`.
  0. Use this partial to create a 'new user' form
  0. Use this partial to create an 'update user' form

0. Let's say we have a collection of 'car' objects. Assuming we have a partial for a single car, how would we render a view that shows all the cars?

## Topic 3: View Layouts

0. Build a single view that uses `content_for` to divide up the content into the following sections:
  0. `head`
  0. `foot`
  0. `navbar`

0. Modify `application.html.erb` below to use the `content_for` divisions you created.

  ```html+erb
  <!DOCTYPE html>
  <html>
  <head>
    <title>SecretApp</title>
    <%= stylesheet_link_tag    "application", :media => "all" %>
    <%= javascript_include_tag "application" %>
    <%= csrf_meta_tags %>
  </head>
  <body>

  <%= yield %>

  </body>
  </html>
  ```

## Topic 4: View Helpers

0. Write a form helper that takes a block of html text, wraps a `<pre>` tag around it, adds a `<h1>` title before it, and finally makes it html safe.